'\" t
.TH "CLOUDCONFIG" "5" "" "cloud-config 5" "cloud-config"
.\" -----------------------------------------------------------------
.\" * Define some portability stuff
.\" -----------------------------------------------------------------
.\" ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
.\" http://bugs.debian.org/507673
.\" http://lists.gnu.org/archive/html/groff/2009-02/msg00013.html
.\" ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
.ie \n(.g .ds Aq \(aq
.el       .ds Aq '
.\" -----------------------------------------------------------------
.\" * set default formatting
.\" -----------------------------------------------------------------
.\" disable hyphenation
.nh
.\" disable justification (adjust text to left margin only)
.ad l
.\" -----------------------------------------------------------------
.\" * MAIN CONTENT STARTS HERE *
.\" -----------------------------------------------------------------
.SH "NAME"
cloud\-config \- User data format used by \fBcloud-init\fR(1)

.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.PP
cloud\-config data is provided by the cloud infrastructure to a cloud
instance. This data is parsed by \fBcloud-init\fR(1) which then configures
the cloud instance based on the information in the cloud-config.

.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.PP
The \fBcloud\-config\fR format is used to structure configuration data
provided to the cloud instance. This data is structured in the YAML
format (\fBhttp://yaml.org\fR). Note that \fBcloud\-init\fR(1) uses the
libyaml library, which supports YAML version 1.1.

.PP
In the YAML content, the root node (the document) contains a sequence of
directives. These directives inform cloud-init that the content of the
directive are processed by a directive-specific handler, or "module".

.PP
cloud-init includes many modules, each expecting a specifically constructed
content. This document lists the correct format and organization of each data
section for the supported modules, describes their effect, and states
various parameters for each option.

.PP
Table of implemented directives. Column 3 ("Ref") and column 4 ("CoreOS")
list whether the reference specification or the CoreOS implementation support
these directives. Note that implementation details may differ, due to the
underlying differences in Operating Systems.

.RS
.TS
lb   lb lb lb
lfCW l  l l l.
Directive            Description                           Ref.  CoreOS.
_
groups               Configure user account groups         yes   no
package_upgrade      Perform a software update             yes   no
packages             Install additional software           yes   no
runcmd               Execute system commands               yes   no
service              Perform system service configuration  no    no
ssh_authorized_keys  Provision SSH public keys             yes   yes
users                Configure user accounts               yes   yes
write_files          Write content to arbitrary files      yes   yes
_
.TE
.RE

.SH "OPTIONS"
.PP
For each of the directives listed in the table above, zero or more options may
be provided. The list below documents the implemented options per directive.
The "Type" field values are:

.PP
\fBTYPES\fR
.RS 4
.TS
lb    lb
lfCW  l  l.
Type        Description
_
boolean     Either true, false, yes, no, 0 or 1 (upper case and initial capitol
            letter versions treated identical)
string      A generic string encoded value. Can be multiline or YAML encoded
            content
integer     A string encoded decimal integer value
octal       A string encoded octal integer value
hex         A string encoded hexadecimal integer value
[]          if a type is listed with [] appended, it means there may be zero or
            more values, lists of values or any arbitrary depth of these nested
*           Indicates this value isn't a separate key, but directly the
            associated value of the root node. This is applicable for directives
            that only have a single configuration parameter,
            e.g. "package_upgrade"
.TE
.RE

.PP
\fBgroups\fR
.RS 4
.TS
lb    lb lb lb
lfCW  l  l l l.
Option     Type      Required     Function
_
name       string[]  no           Create a new user account group and
                                  place listed user account names in
                                  that group
.TE
.RE

.PP
\fBpackage_upgrade\fR
.RS 4
.TS
lb    lb lb lb
lfCW  l  l l l.
Option     Type      Required     Function
_
*          boolean   yes          Enables or disables whether software
                                  update is performed
.TE
.RE

.PP
\fBpackages\fR
.RS 4
.TS
lb    lb lb lb
lfCW  l  l l l.
Option     Type      Required     Function
_
name       string[]  no           Enables installation of software bundles
.TE
.RE

.PP
\fBruncmd\fR
.RS 4
.TS
lb    lb lb lb
lfCW  l  l l l.
Option     Type      Required     Function
_
*          string[]  no           Executes a script or program. The script
                                  schould be prepended with a standard
                                  shebang stanza to indicate interpreter
.TE
.RE

.PP
\fBservice\fR
.RS 4
.TS
lb    lb lb lb
lfCW  l  l l l.
Option     Type      Required     Function
_
start      string[]  no           Start units
stop       string[]  no           Stop units
restart    string[]  no           Restart units
enable     string[]  no           Enable units to start automatically
disable    string[]  no           Disable units from starting automatically
reload     string[]  no           Reload service units
isolate    string[]  no           Change target to a new unit
mask       string[]  no           Prevent units from starting
unmask     string[]  no           Remove unit start prevention mask
.TE
.RE

.PP
\fBssh_authorized_keys\fR
.RS 4
.TS
lb    lb lb lb
lfCW  l  l l l.
Option     Type      Required     Function
_
*          string[]  no           Specifies an SSH public key value, as
                                  string. This will be added to the default
                                  user account's SSH configuration
.TE
.RE

.PP
\fBusers\fR
.RS 4
.TS
lb    lb lb lb
lfCW  l  l l l.
Option     Type      Required     Function
_
*          []        no           This directive expects a list of user
                                  definitions. Each definition can
                                  additionally specify the following
                                  sub-options:
_
name       string    yes          A user account name to be created
gecos      string    no           A real user name, can be left empty
homedir    string    no           A home directory path. Default under "/home"
primary-group
           string    no           A group name.
groups     string    no           Comma-separated list of group names or
                                  single group name. Specifies additional
                                  groups to put this user account into
lock-passwd
           boolean   no           Lock the user account
inactive   boolean   no           Mark the user account as inactive
passwd     string    no           Password hash for the user account
no-create-home
           boolean   no           Omits creating a home directory
no-user-group
           boolean   no           Omits group creating for the account
no-log-init
           boolean   no           Omits this account from lastlog/faillog
expiredate string    no           A date at which to expire the password
ssh-authorized-keys
           string[]  no           Add SSH public keys to ssh configuration
sudo       string[]  no           Add sudoers lines for this account
system     boolean   no           Make the account a system account
.TE
.RE

.PP
\fBwrite_files\fR
.RS 4
.TS
lb    lb lb lb
lfCW  l  l l l.
Option      Type      Required     Function
_
*           []        no           This directive expects a list of write_files
                                   definitions. Each definition itself contains the
                                   following options:
_
content     string    yes          The content to write to a file
path        string    yes          The full path and filename of the file to
                                   be written out
owner       string    no           Username and optionally group name, separated
                                   by ":" or ".". Defaults to "root.root"
permissions octal     no           Octal value describing the file permissions
                                   default value is influenced according to
                                   \fBumask\fR
.TE
.RE

.SH "COPYRIGHT"
.PP
Copyright 2015 Intel Corporation\&. License: Creative Commons
Attribution\-ShareAlike 3.0 Unported\s-2\u[1]\d\s+2\&.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
\fBcloud-init\fB(1)

.SH "NOTES"
.IP " 1." 4
Creative Commons Attribution\-ShareAlike 3.0 Unported
.RS 4
\%http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/3.0/
.RE
